# Nontechnical Overview of Ruby
## Ruby
Dynamic, Reflective Object-Oriented, Multi-Paradigm

### Dynamic
Dynamic languages can execute many common programming behaviors at runtime.

Dynamic programming languages can compile code at runtime and execute code during compile time. The phases are muddled.

This flexibility enables metaprogamming, more abstraction, and less code. It comes at the expense of execution speed.

Dynamic programming languages are also dynamically typed. The langauge enforces type contraints at runtime where in static langauges, the language enforces type contraiints at compile-time.

### Reflective
Reflection is the ability of a program to manipulate its own structure and behavior as data. In object-oriented reflective langauges, reflection permits the examination of classes, modules, and methods as well as instantiation and method invocation.

### Object-Oriented
Object-Oriented Programming allows you to conceive of a program as a society of objects that receive messages that they then use to perform their own discrete operations. Objects contain data in fields known as attributes and a set of associated methods that may access and manipulate these attributes.

Most popular object-oriented languages (Java, Perl, Python, Ruby, Obj-C, Smalltalk, Swift) are class-based. Objects are instances of classes, which determine type. Classes define the data format and methods available to their instances or to themselves.

Classes inherit from other classes in a "is-a-type-of" relationship.

- Ex. `Dog` class might inherit from the `Pet` class

Child classes inherit data definitions and methods from the parent class as well as overwrite these definitions and methods to customize and extend its parent.

**Encapsulation** is a principle of object-oriented design. It dictates that:

1. All code with a particular set of data is placed in one class
2. Hide methods and data essential to a class's internal workings (known as information hiding). The programmer should expose via methods only what's necessary to a class's relationships with other classes. This prevents external interference and misuse.

### Multi-Paradigm
Ruby also support procedural and functional programming.

**Procedural programming** privileges method calls (procedure invocations). The programmer specifies a series of procedure that operate on data structures in a systematic order. Defining and invoking methods outside of a class in Ruby approximates procedural programming as these methods are part of a single root object.

**Functional programming** privileges pure functions. Those whose return value is only determined by the input, without side effects such as changes in state. Adherents of functional programming conceive of computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions. Ruby shares many features of functional programming through its use of blocks. Ruby featurs anonymous functions, lexical closures, and higher-order functions.

## Philosophy
Ruby follows the Principle of Least Astonishment. It attempts to minimize confusion for experienced users. Ruby reads like English and is designed to be expressive, powerful, elegant, and flexible.

## Ruby vs. Python
Ruby and Python are very similar. Here's a list of differences:

1. Python doesn't support blocks
2. Python has a richer set of data structures
3. Python is inflexible
4. Whitespace is syntactically significant in Python
5. Python is less object-oriented.
6. Ruby values elegance and "magic" over clarity.

Python has a more diverse community. Here's an excellent infographic from UpGuard comparing the two languages: [Python versus Ruby](https://assets.aaonline.io/fullstack/ruby/assets/python_vs_ruby.jpg)

## Vocabulary
### Test-Driven Development (TDD)
TDD is a process for writing software. Its basic steps are as follows:
1. Add a test
2. Run all the tests and make sure the new tests fails
3. Write code
4. Run all the tests and make sure the new test passes
5. Refactor the code

### Behavior-Driven Development (BDD)
BDD is an extension of TDD. It structures the testing process through the use of user stories - a description of the user's use of the feature being developed. The goal of the user story is to help focus the developer on what to test and what not to test.

### Unit Test
A way of testing an application by breaking down into its smallest parts and testing each part in isolation. Unit tests typically use mock objects to make sure that the problems elsewhere in the code won't cause the tests to mistakenly fail.

Unit testing is often automated at larger or more sophisticated companies.

### Integration Test
Integration testing combines units of code and tests the results of their interaction. This is done after each of the individual units have been tested.

### Test Coverage
**Test coverage** refers to how much of a program has been tested. This could be the percentage of functions called by the test suite or the percentage of statements in the code that have been executed by the test suite.


