# Debugging

It takes 10x as long to debug code as it takes to write it. Master debugging and you master programming.

## Rule #1: Read the error

Always read the error. It will tell you everything you need to know.

Errors give the following information:
- Error type
- Error message
- Line number on which the error occurred
- Chain of methods that were called leading up to it (referred to as the **stack trace**)

Learning to understand errors and error messages is critical to developing your abilities as a programmer.

## Perform a Mental Stack Trace

Whenever you encountera bug your ability to track it down will be dependent on your ability to trace the logic of your own code.

- Why did the bug happen?
- What are the values of the key variables at key points in your program?
- Why did each line evaluate to leading up to the bug?

Strategies for these include:
- Break down your code into more testable chunks and actively run each of those chunks to test if they're working
- Use `p` statments often, use them to check what the values of variables are, that methods are called etc
- Use the debugger

You should constantly be testing your assumptions.

## Write code that's testable

When writing a script, write all of your code inside of methods. Only a very little should be at the top level to kick things off.

How to load code without running it immediately.

`if __FILE__ == $PROGRAM_NAME`
- checks to see if the current running program (`$PROGRAM_NAME`) is the same as the current file.
- If so, this is invoked as a script. Otherwise, we're loading it as a part of some other program and we shouldn't do more than load the method.

## Pay technical debt
If you encounter buggy code that is poorly decomposed into methods, **fix the design immediately**. You're going to want to fix the design eventually, refactoring will probably create new bugs to fix so you might as well deal with this at the same time.

Bad design is sometimes a compromise to finish a project on-time. This is called *technical debt*. The more you go into debt, the more it will cost you later.

## Don't read the source
Sometimes you may be able to spot the bug, but **don't spend more than 1 min doing this in real life**. Many bugs can be spotted but many others are harder to spot. The best way is to take your code step-by-step.

## Use a REPL to isolate the problem

*regression* - an input which produces the wrong output

## Use a debugger to zero in on the problem

Use byebug, it allows you to:
- check the value of variables at any time
- continuously watch the value of a variable, so that we can see when it changes
- change the value of variables in the middle of program execution
- set breakpoints so that we can pause whenever we reach a certain line in our code
- examine the call stack to determine exactly which methods brought us to a certain line of code
- execute short snippets of code to test an idea (like pry or irb)

## Step through the code
add `require 'byebug'` at the top of your file.

add `debugger` in the code to pause at that point.

`s` - steps through the code
`n` - advances to the next piece of the code
`break` - add breakpoints
`c` - continue

PRY
`wtf` looks at the stack trace

## Debugging and Testing

When a bug is discovered, it is good practice to write a new test that verifies we don't make that mistake again.

## Resources

[why Pry is awesome](http://www.sitepoint.com/rubyists-time-pry-irb/)

[Byebug documentation](https://github.com/deivid-rodriguez/byebug/blob/master/README.md)