# Common Exceptions

Exceptions can be mysterious at first. Exceptions are trying to tell you what went wrong.

## NameError
Exception thrown when you try to use a variable or method tht hasn't been defined.

Ruby looks for a local variable or a method and will tell you it was not defined.

### Uninitialized Constant
Variation on standard NameError.

"Uninitialized constant" means that Ruby is trying to find a class or constant but could not find it.

This could be because:
* A typo exists in the code
* `require` was not utilized

### NoMethod Error
This is similar to NameError.

NoMethodError is thrown when it's clear the user wanted to call a method that doesn't exist.

Ruby will state the method name and the object.

A common error occurs when a variable is `nil` when we don't expect it.

`nil` is an instance of the `NilClass` which doesn't have the method we want.

## ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments
If we don't give a method the right number of arguments, we'll get an exception thrown at us.

Ruby will tell us we passed the wrong number of arguments as well as the number of arguments when a different number was expected.

## TypeError

A `TypeError` will be thrown if you pass the wrong type of thing to a method.

Ex. Numbers can only add other numbers.

This normally occurs when you call a method with the wrong types of things.

## Load Error
Load errors are common.

Sometimes you are trying to load a file that is provided by a gem but haven't installed a gem yet.

Another common cause is that you are trying to load another source file in your project but you forgot the initial './'

_Relative_ includes are used to include files that are inside of your project.

## SyntaxError
Writing ungrammatical Ruby code will net you a `SyntaxError`. This tells you Ruby didn't understand your code.

The most common are forgetting to close quotes, parentheses, or do-end blocks.

